---
layout: post
title: The Shell Command Line and File System Basics
date: 2024-01-13 21:10:10
description: About The Shell Command Line and File System Basics
tags: Tools
categories: posts
giscus_comments: true
related_posts: true
---

## 1. Common Commands

- `pwd`: Print working directory.
- `ls`: List directory contents.
- `cd`: Change directory. In Unix-like operating systems, the root directory is represented by a forward slash (`/`). `.` represents the current directory, and `..` represents the parent directory. For example, `cd ..` changes the current directory to the parent directory. `cd /` changes the current directory to the root directory. `cd .` does nothing because it changes the current directory to the current directory. `cd ../..` changes the current directory to the grandparent directory. `cd ~` changes the current directory to the home directory. `cd -` changes the current directory to the previous directory.
- `mkdir`: Make directory
- `touch`: Create file. For example, `touch index.html` creates an empty file named `index.html`. If the file already exists, it updates the file's last modified date.
- `rm`: Remove file. For example, `rm index.html` removes the file named `index.html`. If the file doesn't exist, it does nothing. If the file is a directory, it removes the directory and all its contents. You can use the `-r` option to remove a directory and all its contents recursively. For example, `rm -r directory` removes the directory named `directory` and all its contents.
- `cp`: Copy file. For example, `cp index.html about.html` copies the file named `index.html` to a new file named `about.html`. If the file already exists, it overwrites the file. If the file doesn't exist, it creates a new file. If the file is a directory, it copies the directory and all its contents.
- `mv`: Move file.
- `cat`: Print file contents. For example, `cat index.html` prints the contents of the file named `index.html`. If the file doesn't exist, it does nothing.
- `man <command>`: Show manual for command. For example, `man ls` shows the manual for the `ls` command.
- `clear`: Clear terminal screen.
- `exit`: Exit terminal
- `history`: Show command history
- `echo`: Print text to terminal. It simply prints the text you provide to the terminal. For example, `echo "Hello World"` prints `Hello World` to the terminal.
- `tail`: Print last lines of file. For example, `tail index.html` prints the last 10 lines of the file named `index.html`. You can specify the number of lines to print using the `-n` option. For example, `tail -n 20 index.html` prints the last 20 lines of the file named `index.html`. Or `tail -n1` prints the last line of the file.
- `date`: Print current date and time.
- `grep`: Search for text in file. For example, `grep "Hello" index.html` searches for the text `Hello` in the file named `index.html`. You can use the `-i` option to make the search case-insensitive.
- `|`: Pipe. It takes the output of one command and uses it as input for another command. For example, `ls | grep .html` lists all files in the current directory that end with `.html`.



## 2. The `ls -l` Command and File Permissions

The `ls -l` command lists files in a directory in long format. It shows the following information for each file:

### Understanding Unix File System: Permissions and Hard Links

When working with Unix-like operating systems such as Linux and macOS, understanding file permissions and hard links is essential. Here's a guide to help you navigate these concepts.

### File System Basics

A file system is a method for storing and organizing files on a storage device. It defines how data is stored, retrieved, and updated. The Unix file system is hierarchical, meaning it uses directories to organize files into a tree structure. The root directory is the top-level directory, and all other directories are subdirectories of the root directory.

In Unix-like operating systems, the root directory is represented by a forward slash (`/`). For example, the path `/Users/username/Documents` refers to the `Documents` directory in the `username` directory in the `Users` directory in the root directory.

### Inodes

An inode is a data structure that stores metadata about a file. It contains information like the file's size, owner, permissions, and timestamps. Each file has an inode, and the inode number uniquely identifies the file. When you create a file, the operating system allocates an inode and assigns it a number. The inode number is not visible to the user, but you can see it using the `ls -i` command.
```shell
(base) ~/MyWorkSpace/Sep769_project> ls -i
97787252 GoogleService-Info.plist    95700643 Sep769_project/
98715063 Podfile                     95700641 Sep769_project.xcodeproj/
95987916 Podfile.lock                95987913 Sep769_project.xcworkspace/
95987893 Pods/
```

### File Permissions

When you create a file, the operating system assigns permissions to the file. File permissions determine who can read, write, or execute a file. When you list files in a terminal using the `ls -l` command, you'll see an output like this:

```shell
(base) /> ls -l
total 10
drwxrwxr-x  63 root  admin  2016 Jan 12 19:14 Applications/
drwxr-xr-x  75 root  wheel  2400 Oct  1 18:35 Library/
drwxr-xr-x@ 10 root  wheel   320 Sep 16 09:28 System/
drwxr-xr-x   5 root  admin   160 Oct  1 18:32 Users/
drwxr-xr-x   4 root  wheel   128 Jan 12 19:14 Volumes/
drwxr-xr-x@ 39 root  wheel  1248 Sep 16 09:28 bin/
lrwxr-xr-x@  1 root  wheel    11 Sep 16 09:28 etc@ -> private/etc
lrwxr-xr-x   1 root  wheel    25 Nov 21 23:22 home@ -> /System/Volumes/Data/home

(base) ~/MyWorkSpace/Sep769_project> ls -l
-rw-r--r--@  1 Miles  staff   1128 Oct 12 22:11 GoogleService-Info.plist
-rw-r--r--@  1 Miles  staff    792 Oct 17 19:06 Podfile
-rw-r--r--   1 Miles  staff  33117 Oct 17 18:46 Podfile.lock
drwxr-xr-x  39 Miles  staff   1248 Oct 17 18:46 Pods/
drwxr-xr-x  27 Miles  staff    864 Oct 18 23:16 Sep769_project/
drwxr-xr-x@  6 Miles  staff    192 Oct 18 22:17 Sep769_project.xcodeproj/
drwxr-xr-x@  5 Miles  staff    160 Oct  7 22:33 Sep769_project.xcworkspace/
```

(1). `drwxrwxr-x  63 root  admin  2016 Jan 12 19:14 Applications/`

- **Type of File (`d`)**: The first character indicates the file type. A `d` means it's a directory. Other types include `-` for regular file and `l` for symbolic link.
- **Permissions (`rwxrwxr-x`)**: The next nine characters show file permissions, divided into three groups of three:
  - **User (Owner) Permissions (`rwx`)**: 
    - `r` for read - file is readable.
    - `w` for write - file is writable.
    - `x` means the file is executable.
  - **Group Permissions (`rwx`)**:
    - `r` for read - file is readable by the group.
    - `w` for write - file is writable by the group.
    - `x` means the file is executable by the group.
  - **Others Permissions (`r-x`)**:
    - `r` for read - file is readable by others.
    - `-` means the file is not writable or executable by others.
- **Number of Links (`63`)**: The first number indicates the number of links to the file. This number is the number of directory entries plus one. For example, if a file is in two directories, it has two links. If a file is in one directory, it has one link. If a file is in no directories, it has zero links.
- **Owner (`root`)**: The next field shows the file's owner. In this case, the owner is `root`.
- **Group (`admin`)**: The next field shows the file's group. In this case, the group is `admin`.
- **Size (`2016`)**: The next field shows the file's size in bytes. In this case, the file is 2016 bytes.
- **Last Modified (`Jan 12 19:14`)**: The next field shows the date and time the file was last modified. In this case, the file was last modified on January 12 at 19:14.
- **Name (`Applications/`)**: The last field shows the file's name. In this case, the file is named `Applications
- **Symbolic Link (`->`)**: If the file is a symbolic link, the name is followed by an arrow (`->`) and the name of the file it points to. For example, the `etc` file is a symbolic link to the `private/etc` directory.


(2). `lrwxr-xr-x@  1 root  wheel    11 Sep 16 09:28 etc@ -> private/etc`

- **Type of File (`l`)**: The first character indicates the file type. A `l` means it's a symbolic link.
- **Permissions (`rwxr-xr-x`)**: The next nine characters show file permissions, divided into three groups of three:
  - **User (Owner) Permissions (`rwx`)**: 
    - `r` for read - file is readable.
    - `w` for write - file is writable.
    - `x` means the file is executable.
  - **Group Permissions (`r-x`)**:
    - `r` for read - file is readable by the group.
    - `-` means the file is not writable or executable by the group.
  - **Others Permissions (`r-x`)**:
    - `r` for read - file is readable by others.
    - `-` means the file is not writable or executable by others.
  - **Number of Links (`1`)**: The first number indicates the number of links to the file. This number is the number of directory entries plus one. For example, if a file is in two directories, it has two links. If a file is in one directory, it has one link. If a file is in no directories, it has zero links.
  - **Owner (`root`)**: The next field shows the file's owner. In this case, the owner is `root`.
  - **Group (`wheel`)**: The next field shows the file's group. In this case, the group is `wheel`. Wheel is a special group that allows users to use the `su` command to switch to the root user.
  - **Size (`11`)**: The next field shows the file's size in bytes. In this case, the file is 11 bytes.
  - **Last Modified (`Sep 16 09:28`)**: The next field shows the date and time the file was last modified. In this case, the file was last modified on September 16 at 09:28.
  - **Name (`etc@`)**: The last field shows the file's name. In this case, the file is named `etc`.

(3). `-rw-r--r--@  1 Miles  staff   1128 Oct 12 22:11 GoogleService-Info.plist`

- **Type of File (`-`)**: The first character indicates the file type. A `-` means it's a regular file.
- **Permissions (`rw-r--r--`)**: The next nine characters show file permissions, divided into three groups of three:
  - **User (Owner) Permissions (`rw-`)**: 
    - `r` for read - file is readable.
    - `w` for write - file is writable.
    - `-` means the file is not executable.
  - **Group Permissions (`r--`)**:
    - `r` for read - file is readable by the group.
    - `-` means the file is not writable or executable by the group.
  - **Others Permissions (`r--`)**:
    - `r` for read - file is readable by others.
    - `-` means the file is not writable or executable by others.
  - **Number of Links (`1`)**: The first number indicates the number of links to the file. This number is the number of directory entries plus one. For example, if a file is in two directories, it has two links. If a file is in one directory, it has one link. If a file is in no directories, it has zero links.
  - **Owner (`Miles`)**: The next field shows the file's owner. In this case, the owner is `Miles`.
  - **Group (`staff`)**: The next field shows the file's group. In this case, the group is `staff`. Staff is a special group that allows users to use the `sudo` command to run commands as the root user.
  - **Size (`1128`)**: The next field shows the file's size in bytes. In this case, the file is 1128 bytes.
  - **Last Modified (`Oct 12 22:11`)**: The next field shows the date and time the file was last modified. In this case, the file was last modified on October 12 at 22:11.
  - **Name (`GoogleService-Info.plist`)**: The last field shows the file's name. In this case, the file is named `GoogleService-Info.plist`.



